---
id: architecture
title: Architecture
---

import { WIP } from "@site/src/components/wip/WIP";

## A quick summary

Image Processing Pipeline is split into several reusable modules, each providing a different layer
of abstraction. At the top, there is a user-friendly interface that automates the process. Once you
reach the broker, you have a reusable job server that could be built into a backend for
multi-threaded image processing.

One of the challenges of IPP was overcoming Node.js thread pool size limit, which must be set before
starting the Node.js runtime. Libraries such as sharp rely on the thread pool to carry out their
operations in a non-blocking manner. To overcome this, with minimal overhead for the end user, a
second process needs to be spawned with [libuv][libuv]'s `UV_THREADPOOL_SIZE` set to the concurrency
option.

## The parts

Image Processing Pipeline is built around some modern parts of the Node.js environment, such as the
`async/await` syntax. Most functions are asynchronous, and return promises that resolve or reject.

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
:::tip
Once all tasks have been completed and the broker has been shutdown, all blocking event handlers are
cleanly unregistered. The main Node.js process may exit gracefully by exhausting the event-loop of
any useful work, and therefore `process.exit` is unnecessary.
:::
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

##Command Line Interface

The CLI is responsible for searching and validating program configuration, passing the list of
images to the broker for processing, and reporting back to the user with a progress report. It is
also responsible for generating additional reports, such as the manifest file.

This is a high level program interface, and may be replaced with a different variant, such as we web
interface.

### Core

The processing core is a simple asynchronous function that will create a metadata object, and
recursively pass the image buffer and metadata through a given processing pipeline. It will then
resolve a Promise with the resulting formats and associated metadata.

### Pipes

Like the core, pipes are also asynchronous functions that receive a single image buffer and metadata
object, and return a promise resolving into a one or multiple image buffers and associated metadata
objects.

A pipe may modify the image in any way, receiving and returning a binary buffer, whilst also being
able to modify the returned metadata object in any way.

The metadata object is **immutable**, and should not be modified. Only a copy with modified values
is to be returned. The function should also be kept as **pure** as possible.

### Common elements

Some elements are common to multiple IPP modules. They are usually a part of the shared
`@ipp/common` package.

#### Metadata

The metadata object is generated at the core, and returned all the way up to the CLI, where it is
used to create the manifest file, for example. It is a simple indexed object that maps strings to
any values.

## Exception

A common Exception class is extended by most parts of the program, as a better extension to the
JavaScript Error class. Different modules can extend the Exception to create their own unique
detectable error boundaries.

## Error handling

Pipes may throw errors (or reject with an error) at any point. This error bubbles up to the chain
until it can be dealt with by a capable consumer, such as the CLI. If an error occurs in a pipe, it
will fail the entire image job.

The CLI, for example, will serialise and write any pipeline errors into a `errors.json` file in the
root of the output folder.

## Deprecated parts

### Broker

The broker was the initial solution to overcome the issue of the limited threadpool size in the main
Node.js process. The broker was responsible for spawning a new child process and handling messaging
between the processes over an Inter-Process Communication channel, distributing jobs via a queue.
The down side of this is an additional time overhead when creating or destroying the broker.

It was replaced in favour of an initialisation script that attempts to elevate the current process'
threadpool as effeciently as possible based on the OS. This feature was implemented in CLI version
`1.1.0`.

<WIP centre spacing="12" />

[libuv]: https://libuv.org
